Media24’s Lifestyle magazines have seen significant year-on-year growth:Publication NameTOTAL CIRCULATION (ABC Q2 2021)% CHANGE YoYTuis|Home85 96119%SARIE70 93033%Weg!/go!54 63619%FAIRLADY42 83052%go! Drive & Camp and Weg! Ry & Sleep37 29174%TRUELOVE27 27442%SARIE Kos24 4807%Wicus Pretorius, editor of Tuis|Home, believes that magazines offer readers a much-needed escape. “More than ever in a time of doom and gloom, readers want good news, inspiration and an element of surprise,” he says. “That is what the Tuis|Home team aims to achieve with each new issue, and judging by the new circs, we seem to have hit the sweet spot, speaking to the hearts of families and their enjoyment of their homes and gardens.”Michelle Van Breda, editor of SARIE, says magazines are still valued by readers: “No-one believes more in the power and value of magazines than the readers themselves.”Pierre Steyn, Weg!/go! editor, adds that magazines connect with readers in a way that can’t be replicated: “We see our magazine... as a living and growing organism intimately connected to a community of readers that responds and innovates to their needs in a way that can't be replicated by other media. An expertly curated magazine is the perfect vehicle for great storytelling and for exceptional journalism that, in our case, not only inspires people to explore their beautiful country and continent but brings joy and adds value to their lives.”FAIRLADY editor Suzy Brokensha says her team is absolutely thrilled by the results. “I think what these lovely figures show is that magazines are still where readers go for pleasure – and information they can trust. Magazines have always been known for their in-depth, accurate, fact-checked journalism, and in a world filled with fake news and echo chambers, that’s a great place for us to be.”“We are delighted with our latest ABC,” says go! Drive & Camp and Weg! Ry & Sleep editor Schalk Jonker. “All credit to the publishers for taking hard but innovative decisions when they needed taking and to the editorial team for implementing the strategy that allows us to reach our audience, who are hungry for escapism and clearly still sees that particular value in our magazine.”TRUELOVE editor Makhosazana ‘Khosi’ Zwane-Siguqa says her magazine’s growth, despite difficult circumstances, is thrilling and encouraging. “Our brands are kept afloat by our audiences and advertisers whose lives were turned upside down. As a country, we have also gone through unprecedented times of unrest and insecurity. As editor, I think about this a lot. How does TRUELOVE continue to uplift, encourage, inspire and thrill? So, these numbers tell me there's a renewed preference for trusted brands. We must just be nimble enough to meet audience expectations both offline and online.”Seven Media24 titles are amongst the top ten magazines. These are:1st – Huisgenoot (135 861)2nd – Tuis|Home (85 961)3rd – SARIE (70 930)4th – YOU (70 581)5th – Kuier (69 964)8th – Weg!/go! (54 636)10th - FAIRLADYIf you would like to collaborate on our titles or find out more, feel free to contact Nikki Ruttimann at moc.42aidem@rikkin.