Wanda Matandela, chief business enterprise officer of MTN Business, says: "Congratulations to Ambani Africa. The combination of their innovative approach and the prize money should put them on the fast track to growth in their mission to solve the literacy gap faced by our country and encourage parents and kids to embrace their indigenous languages. The app is a free gaming solution for foundation-phase learners to learn African languages in a fun way."  Winners in each of the categories were:Best Enterprise Solution: iiDENTIFii app - iiDENTIFii (identify) is a remote biometric digital authentication and automated on-boarding technology platform. It fulfils the needs of customer-focused organisations that are required to authenticate and onboard customers.  Most Innovative Solution: Hellopay SoftPOS - SoftPOS is a contactless payment acceptance app that enables merchants to accept electronic payments easily by turning an NFC enabled Android phone into a card acceptance device. Registration is done online. Best Health Solution: Guardian Health Platform - Guardian Health Platform is a tele-health platform that provides services ranging from virtual appointments, appointment bookings, digital records, remote monitoring for patients to track their vitals from home. Best Gaming Solution:  Ambani AfricaBest Agricultural Solution: Murimi - An app that gives farmers access to automated crop diagnostics, pertaining to the crop’s health, pest infestation and nutrient needs. Best Educational Solution:  Ambani AfricaBest Financial Solution: Shyft - Shyft is the app that enables ordinary people to become global citizens. This app simplifies the experience of buying and selling FX, buying and selling international shares, sending money offshore as well as paying for goods and services in foreign currency, while travelling or online.  Best Hackathon Solution: Sisa - South Africa carries a huge burden of mental illnesses with the most prevalent being anxiety disorders, substance abuse disorders, mood disorders and depression. People with mental health conditions often face neglect as well as stigma and discrimination. The creator of the app, Claudia, was inspired to create an app as a passion project after a mental health crisis during her studies. Best ‘South African’ App:  Ambani AfricaBest Campus Cup Solution: UniWise - UniWise is an app that summarises different university prospectuses for students. Students or prospective students can simply enter their marks and start searching for any course they would like to apply for at any supported institution. Best African Solution: Kazi - Kazi, is a Kenyan task-app to handle all those annoying things you hate to do but have to, without any hassle. Best Consumer Solution:  Takealot appBest Women in STEM: Rekindle Learning app - Rekindle earning empowers people to adapt to the changing world of work, new products or services. Huawei Category 15: Roadsave - RoadSave's multi-award-winning technology keeps users safe and secure with one-touch access to 24/7 emergency support, and gives users access to exclusive deals, advice, financing, quotes, discounted products, services and more.  People’s Choice Award: Afrihost - The Afrihost App gives customers access to ClientZone's features from their phone.