Gareth Leck and Pepe Marais welcome the new Joe Public United Durban leadership team, Clive McMurray and Brandon Govender.This deal sees Joe Public United grow its footprint and offering into the second-largest provincial contributor to the economy in South Africa. Joe Public United now has offices in Johannesburg, Cape Town, and Durban.Joe Public United South Africa is looking forward to bolstering the Durban office’s existing offering with expertise in brand design, digital, data and analytics, media, and PR, as well as adding additional support in the areas of strategy and creative. The focus will be on growing existing clients such as Dunlop, Cerebos, Independent Media, Irvine’s, Halo Water, and others, and extending Joe Public United’s leading offering to new brands within KwaZulu-Natal and beyond.“For us to partner with South Africa’s number one agency group is a victory for creativity. Not just for us, but the province. For years we’ve been spearheading creativity in KwaZulu-Natal. Now being part of the Joe Public United family will allow us to take this to the next level and exponentially grow our people and our clients,” said Brandon Govender, Integrated Executive Creative Director, Joe Public United Durban.  BIG NEWS: Allow us to introduce you to the newest member of our family: Joe Public United Durban. We are excited for the opportunity to grow greatness and ignite our creative spark in KZN! ⚡️Read all about it here: https://t.co/gLnr8CXcNd#GrowthFeedsGrowth pic.twitter.com/KSNK3fvLDA— Joe Public United (@joepublicunited) September 22, 2021 “We believe this collaboration serves as an incredible opportunity to further build on our growth purpose, and we are fully committed to supporting the team in Durban in every way we can to ensure the agency can deliver the highest levels of creative and service excellence to grow their clients,” said Pepe Marais, Group Integrated Chief Creative Officer, Joe Public United.“The newly acquired Joe Public United Durban is currently ranked as the number one creative agency in KwaZulu-Natal. And in this regard, we are very excited to be partnering with a team that is not only aligned to our growth purpose and values, but one that will also be able to bring such strong creative capabilities to deliver more value to our clients,” said Gareth Leck, Group CEO, Joe Public United.