Tender description: Configuration, deployment and management of an integrated IT backup system. Terms of reference Kaya 959 requires a service provider to build, implement and manage the company’s IT infrastructure backup solution using the Arcserve UDP software program. Bid submissions to be emailed to: az.oc.959ayak@rednet. The closing date and time for submissions is 17 September 2021 at 17h00 (GMT+2). Late or incomplete submissions will not be accepted. Purpose These Terms of Reference are aimed at procuring a competent service provider to configure and implement an integrated IT backup solution on behalf of Kaya 959 to enable the company achieve business continuity. Overview Kaya 959 is a radio station broadcasting to hundreds and thousands of listeners in the Gauteng region under the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (ICASA) regulations. The station operates 24 hours a days seven (7) days a week, with the current staff complement totalling eighty (80). Systems and platforms in use: Predominantly a Microsoft house with... Hyper V cluster/three hosts Six virtual servers Four physical servers X10 HP-stacked switches 10GB fibre backbone Objectives of required backup solution:  Ability to back up data from any point – onsite, remote, cloud, during transmision.  Protect physical, cloud and virtual data from malware.  Reduce downtime.  Fast data recovery.  Prevent data loss.  Improved systems recovery.  Ability to back up data from different technologies and platforms.  Built-to-order backup plan.  Round-the-clock support. Systems requiring backup:  Physical Server Finance – SQL DB (4GB) files (500GB)  Physical Domain Controller – 300GB  Virtual File Server - 3TB  Virtual Print Server SQL db - 60GB  Virtual Audio store server – 4TB  Physical Playout server SQL db - 2GB  Physical Scheduling SQL db – 1GB  Office 365 Backup _ 80 email and 20 OneDrive accounts  Cloud Archive/Infrequently accessed files  Virtual Video 1 Server – 30TB  Virtual Video 2 Server – 20TB Deliverables The service provider will be expected to ensure that deliverables are met according the specifications outlined below while ensuring that the integrity of the current systems in place is not compromised. Specifications:  Intel 2U2S Wolf Pass S2600WFTR 2nd Gen Intel Xeon Scalable 1100w PSU 24 DIMMs 12x3.5" hot swap drives  Intel 2/4U Premium Rail AXXFULLRAIL (with CMA Support)  Intel Cable Management Arm AXXCMA2 (Use with AXXFULLRAIL only)  Intel Remote Management Module 4 Lite 2 AXXRMM4LITE2  Intel 1300W PSU Titanium Power Supply Unit - Wolf Pass  Boxed Intel Xeon Silver 4210 Processor (13,75M Cachel 2.20GHz)  Tri-Mode SAS/SATA/PCIe Full-Featured RAID Adapter (PCIe AIC) with 16 Internal Ports Trinity Dunes,	14GB DDR4 Cche; RAID0/1/10/5  Intelcapcitor Maintenance Free Backup Unit (supercapcitor module and NAND Flash module; cables & bracket)  Intel SSD 760p Series (256GB; M.2 80mm, PCIe 3.0 x4; 3D2; TLC)  Intel Ethernet Network Adapter XXV710-DA1; SFP28 Copper DA; 10GbE/25 GbE; Single Port  Intel High Density MS Server Cable Kit - 2X 650mm Straight  Seagate Exos X14 12TB Enterprise HDD; 3.5" 6GB/s SATA; RPM 7200; 256MB Cache  Intel SSD DC S4510 Series (480GB, 2.5in SATA 6Gb/s; 3D2; TLC) Generic Single Pack  Crucial 16GB DDR4 2666 DR ECC R DIMM Bidders are required to include the following as part of their bid:  A brief proposal of the envisaged configuration based on the information supplied.  An activity timeline.  A detailed costing proposal. Technical skills The bidder must be a technology company with a proven record as a managed service provider. The company should have a proven record in data protection and recovery. The company must have a team of IT experts that include Microsoft expert level, Arcserve specialists with proven track record of installations and data centre management. A working knowledge of the electronic media industry will be beneficial. The bidder should have been in the technology business for at least four (4) years.Evaluation After the closing date of the bid invitation, all the proposals submitted by the bidders will be individually evaluated against the criteria set out. Proposals will be evaluated based on technical content, budget and B-BBEE status level of contribution. Kaya 959’s Procurement Policy will be applied to evaluate bids. Bid conditions Bid submissions must include the following information:  Written proposal  Project Plan  Budget  A copy of the bidder’s Tax Clearance Certificate Two (2) written references dated 2017 and later from previous or existing clients A copy of the bidder’s BBBEE certificate Copies of the company leader/s’ ID Failure to provide all or some of the require information may result in your bid being declared invalid. Kaya 959 reserves the right to request new or additional information regarding each bidder and any individual or other persons associated with its project proposal. Bidders shall not make available or disclose details pertaining to their project proposal with anyone not specifically involved in the bid, unless authorised to do so by Kaya 959. Bidders shall not issue any public announcement pertaining to the details of their project without prior written approval by Kaya 959.Bidders are required to declare any conflict of interest they may have in the transaction for which the bid is submitted. The bid offers and proposals should be valid and open for acceptance by Kaya 959 for a minimum period of 120 days from date of submission. Kaya 959 will not be liable for costs incurred in relation to the submission of the bid. Submission of a proposal does not give rise to any contractual obligations on the part of Kaya 959. The successful bidder may not assign any part of its agreement with Kaya 959 nor subcontract any part of the work assigned to them without prior written permission from Kaya 959. A contract will be signed with each member of the company appointed. Service providers will be required to sign confidentiality and indemnity agreements. Kaya 959 may at its own discretion, vary an instruction to include more work. In the event that any conflict of interest is discovered during the assignment, Kaya 959 reserves the right to cancel the agreement with immediate effect.Failure to comply with any condition of this request for a proposal will render the bid proposal invalid. Enquiries Queries may be directed to Tariq Williams on email: az.oc.959ayak@qirat. Submission details Bid documents must be submitted to az.oc.959ayak@rednet by 17h00 on the closing date specified. Late submissions will not be accepted.