Innocent Pereira | image supplied"The Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated the demand for digital services and Yep! is focused on developing innovative digital products that will enable businesses to access customers through multiple online platforms and increase their visibility," the company said in a statement. Executive of marketing at Yep!, Innocent Pereira, says: “We are expanding the e-marketplace to include new offerings from our Yellow Pages digital suite for enhanced access to customers, such as the Yep! All-In-One website builder solution, and the Yep! Lead Generation tools.”The Yep! All-In-One Website Builder Solution is designed for SMMEs to increase visibility, engagement, and sales. This solution uses technology across the online sales funnel, to build a business’s brand online. Through the integrated solution, businesses can experience an effective, transaction-focused, online presence across multiple touchpoints.Experts at Yep! assist businesses by not only building their website, registering their domain, and taking care of the web hosting, but they also help with lead funnel orchestration, via the call now, calendar booking and lead form functionality. This solution includes e-commerce features such as a shopping cart and payment method, along with customer engagement tools such as email and SMS.Tools to generate more leadsBusinesses that grow, have built a conscious capability to generate leads. The Yep! Lead Generation Solution provides technology-driven performance marketing services. Drawing from data science and analytics, the solution allows for highly targeted campaigns to appeal to specific audience demands and drive meaningful action.Again, the digital experts at Yep! will help businesses to customise their digital marketing approach, using tools such as Google AdWords, which enables businesses to be seen by potential customers when they are searching for products and services on Google; Online Banners, which will allow SMMEs to be seen by potential customers when they browse through Google’s display network, and Facebook Content and Ads.