Covid-19 has pushed companies over the technology tipping point — and transformed business forever. Companies have accelerated the digitisation of their customer and supply-chain interactions and of their internal operations by years. It is believed that the share of digital or digitally enabled products in their portfolios has accelerated by as much as seven years. To stay competitive in this new business and economic environment requires new strategies and practices. ECOM Africa explores strategies and tactics in e-commerce business operations, store design and optimisation, fulfilment and logistics, payments and security, and marketing and brand building. Prepare your team for the next big wave in digital commerce, by hearing from industry leaders such as George Mienie, the CEO of AutoTrader, as he shares his insights on why businesses need to be prepared to keep shifting toward this new eCommerce reality. The sheer number of consumers who want to purchase online will change how businesses must operate, and infrastructures will need to adjust. In addition you will have the opportunity to hear from Hanz Rauch, head of digital product for online at Woolworths, as he shares a highlight reel of the Woolies context, what agile product management is, and how this transformation is happening in the impacted areas. Hanz will also highlight the biggest challenges and what the future looks like on this journey. The speakers ECOM Africa has secured some of the leading minds within the e-commerce space to share their exclusive insights, case studies and expertise. The speaker line-up includes:  Hanz Rauch, Head of Digital Product for Online, Woolworths Jason Lane-Sellers, Direct of Market Planning EMEA, LexisNexis Rahul Jain, CEO, Peach Payments Catherine Korsten, General Manager, 1ForYou George Mienie, CEO, AutoTrader Paul Cook, CEO, Faithful To Nature Lynton Peters, CEO, OneCart Anita Erasmus, Business Manager, uAfrica Johann Van Tonder, COO, AWA digital Paris Philippou, VP: Game Ecommerce and Digital, Massmart Alistair Burton, Country Director, Criteo Farai Zaranhyika, Head of Ecommerce/Online, Dischem Warrick Kernes, CEO, Insaka Phil Marais, Head of Africa and Brazil Supply Chain, Cotton On Peter Allerstorfer, UCOOK Janey Pillay, Group IT Executive, Customer and Commerce, Mr Price Group Sam Wilson Spath, Head of Digital Marketing, Woolworths Sponsors include Peach Payments, VISA, Freshworks, LexisNexis, uAfrica, AWA digital, RAM, Criteo, and Bizcommunity who will have a strong presence throughout the event. They will be sharing their experiences with the audiences and will be able to interact digitally with them. The digital platform allows them capabilities to connect with potential customers through virtual exhibition booths, virtual networking, contact swops and educational keynotes and panel discussions. Key topics The conference will be unpacking key topics within the e-commerce space, speaking directly to business operations, store design and optimisation, fulfilment and logistics, payments and security, and marketing and brand building. Attendees can expect to hear case studies on:  Agile product management Secure payments with digital identities Inclusion of the informal economy in digital payments Business operations and infrastructure Fulfilment and logistics Conversion rate optimisation Commerce media and how to target buyers to deliver rich experiences Developing omni-channel strategies Leveraging data in digital marketing In 2021, e-commerce sales are expected to account for 18.1% of retail sales worldwide. It is estimated that there will be 2.14 billion global digital buyers. In retrospect of the Covid-19 pandemic and the rapid acceleration in digital transformation, the speakers deconstruct the strategies they’ve been successful with and how they’re preparing for the next wave in e-commerce. To hear these speakers, join 1,000+ attendees for a full day of in-depth keynotes, panel discussions, online networking, and live Q&A sessions. To register for this event, click here (Coupon code for Bizcommunity readers: BIZ). To speak at the event, contact Terry Southam at ten.stnevecitenik@syrret. For exhibitor and sponsor opportunities, contact Glanville Valentine at ten.stnevecitenik@ellivnalg.